feat: lesson about docs driven development (#2537)
apify/apify-docs: sources/academy/platform/scraping_with_apify_and_ai/03_docs_driven_prompting.md

---
title: Developing a scraper with docs-driven prompting

> description: Improve your Apify scraper by documenting its behavior first and letting an AI agent follow it as a practical spec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Improve your Apify scraper by documenting its behavior first and letting an AI agent follow the documentation as a practical spec.
```

slug: /scraping-with-apify-and-ai/docs-driven-prompting
unlisted: true
---

**In this lesson, we'll keep improving our app for tracking prices on an e-commerce website. We'll write documentation which isn't only useful for people to read, but also gives Cursor the context it needs.**

---

We made our lives easier with an AI agent. Improving our scraper now takes way less back-and-forth than using a regular AI chat. Still, both approaches share one downside.

Prompting a chat or agent is quick and straightforward, but it doesn't leave much trace of our intentions:

- If we want someone else to take over later, it'll be hard for them to figure out why we made some decisions and whether behavior is intentional or accidental.

> - If we get busy with other things and return after a few months, we'll basically become that "someone else" from the first bullet. After a week, we remember why we process prices a certain way. After a year, it's mostly fuzzy memories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If we get busy with other things and return after a few months, we'll basically become that “someone else” who needs to figure out the project. After a week, we might still remember why we process prices a certain way. After a year, it's mostly fuzzy memories.
```
Or something like this. I'd just avoid talking about the docs structure.

Author: Awesome, this is much better, thanks!

- If we want other people to use our scraper, they need simple instructions on how to run it and what to expect.

> Traditionally, we'd write this documentation after finishing the software. With AI, we can describe how the program should work before it's done, point the agent to that spec, and ask it to make it real.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Traditionally, we write the documentation after finishing the software. With AI, we can describe how the program should work before it's done, point the agent to that spec, and ask it to make it real.
```

:::

## Recreating README.md

We could edit the existing `README.md`, but for this lesson it's easier to start from scratch. We'll clear the file and start with a new title and intro:

```md
# My Actor

Small app for tracking prices on an e-commerce website.
```

Now let's add a short section on how to work with the project:

```md
## Development

This is an Apify Actor that runs on Apify.

- Have Node.js and Apify CLI ready
- Run `npm install` to install dependencies
- Run `apify run` to start scraping
- Run `apify push` to upload new version of the program to Apify
```

This is enough for both people and AI agents to quickly understand how to set things up and run them.

## Documenting current behavior

Now let's add a summary of what our scraper already does:

```md
## Behavior

- Downloads the Sales page: https://warehouse-theme-metal.myshopify.com/collections/sales
- The Sales page is the default input URL of the Actor.

> - Extracts all products and saves this for each one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Extracts all products and saves the following data for each one:
```

    - Product name
    - Product detail page URL
    - Price
- Logs each item before it's saved.
- Before it ends, it logs how many products it collected.
- The Actor output schema ensures that Apify interface shows saved items in the best way.

### Prices handling

Saves prices as numbers. Some prices are "from" values, so we call the field `minPrice`.

- `Sale price$74.95` becomes `74.95`
- `Sale priceFrom $1,398.00` becomes `1398.00`
- `Sale price$158.00` becomes `158.00`
```

Most of the text above is just our past prompts, slightly rephrased. Because we now describe behavior in the README, anyone can understand details like price handling. If a bug shows up later, our original intent is clear.

## Adding vendor name

The README documents what we already have. Now let's use it as a spec for what comes next. We'll add vendor name to the output:

```md

> - Extracts all products and saves this for each one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Extracts all products and saves the following data for each one:
```

```text
apify run
```

In the output, we should see each item logged before it's saved, and each item should now include vendor name. It's a bit hard to spot, but in the example below, the first product has `vendorName` set to `JBL` and the second to `Sony`:

```text
INFO  Saving product {"productName":"JBL Flip 4 Waterproof Portable B
luetooth Speaker","productUrl":"https://warehouse-theme-metal.myshopi
fy.com/products/jbl-flip-4-waterproof-portable-bluetooth-speaker","ve
ndorName":"JBL","minPrice":74.95}
INFO  Saving product {"productName":"Sony XBR-950G BRAVIA 4K HDR Ultr
a HD TV","productUrl":"https://warehouse-theme-metal.myshopify.com/pr
oducts/sony-xbr-65x950g-65-class-64-5-diag-bravia-4k-hdr-ultra-hd-tv"
,"vendorName":"Sony","minPrice":1398}
...
```

Nice! We just used a docs-first approach with an AI agent!

## Adding image URL and SKU

Now let's add two more details for each product. We want the scraper to get the product image URL and the number of units in stock, also called [SKU](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stock_keeping_unit):

```md

> - Extracts all products and saves this for each one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Extracts all products and saves the following data for each one:
```

This is the first product we see in the output:

```text
INFO  Saving product {"productName":"JBL Flip 4 Waterproof Portable B
luetooth Speaker","productUrl":"https://warehouse-theme-metal.myshopi
fy.com/products/jbl-flip-4-waterproof-portable-bluetooth-speaker","ve
ndorName":"JBL","imageUrl":"https://warehouse-theme-metal.myshopify.c
om/cdn/shop/products/13549_790__2_73a2a189-b3d5-4ec8-a4c3-b506e1beab7
0.jpg?v=1559820925&width=500","minPrice":74.95,"sku":672}
```

With a bit of effort, we can see `sku` is `672`. If we copy the `imageUrl` value into a browser, we can check it's the right image for the JBL Bluetooth speaker. That's a bit tedious, so let's see if Apify shows it better.

## Pushing Actor to Apify

We've made quite a few changes to our Actor and tested them, so this is a good time to push a new version to Apify:

```text
apify push
```

After the command finishes, we'll open the URL it gives us at the end:

```text
...
Actor detail https://console.apify.com/actors/EL7U7aNddXOzwEJ66
Success: Actor was deployed to Apify cloud and built there.
```

In the Apify interface, we'll click the **Start** button. Soon we should see items popping up in the **Output** section.

> Thanks to the sentence "The Actor output schema ensures that Apify interface shows saved items in the best way," the agent improved how our Actor talks to Apify, so we don't have to switch to **All fields** anymore:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to the sentence “The Actor output schema ensures that Apify interface shows saved items in the best way”, the agent improved how our Actor talks to Apify, so we don't have to switch to **All fields** anymore:
```

Author: I like correct quotation marks very much...

_(I don't want to brag, but I'm such a recognized fan of https://www.zoul.cz/uvozovky/ that the author has dedicated the page to me in the footnote)_

...but I had a hunch that our contribution guidelines prefer the straight ones: " Which, to my surprise, is actually not the case, at least now when I checked! 🙀 

So, challenge accepted. If we wanna play the Correct Quotes Game from now on, I guess I'll have to add a linter for it 😎
